# LizztCMS content management system
# Copyright (C) Utrop A/S Portu media & Communications 2008-2011
#
# This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
# it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
# published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the
# License, or (at your option) any later version.
#
# This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
# but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
# GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
# along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

=head1 LizztCMS TEMPLATE MANUAL - INTRODUCTION

This is the LizztCMS template manual. It serves as an introduction and reference
for the LizztCMS template system.

The version described here is version B<3> of the LizztCMS template API.

=head2 Conventions used

Whenever the word "{as}" (without the quotes) appear, what is meant is the
value supplied to the as= parameter to a needinfo source.

=head1 BASIC FORMAT

At the base of the Liuxz template format lies Mason (HTML::Mason) and Catalyst.
Anything you can do with mason, you can do with a LizztCMS template, and you also
have access to the $c catalyst object. LizztCMS leaves all of the actual code
parsing to Mason, but requires an additional data block to be present
in all templates that lets LizztCMS know things about the template.

A block can look like this (all options are not required, see the section on
INFOBLOCK DATA for more information on the various settings):

    <%perl>
    # BEGIN LizztCMS_INFOBLOCK
    # VERSION    = 0.1
    # NAME       = LizztCMS basic article page
    # LICENSE    = Proprietary
    # APIVERSION = 3
    # TYPE       = article
    # LAYOUT     = 1|2|1|1
    # NEEDSINFO  = article_get_[artid=url,as=article,includeRelations=1,includeComments=1,handleComments=1,layout=1]
    # FILESPOT   = [type=image,name=Primary image,as=primaryImage,id=1]
    # INCLUDES   = no.lizztcms.header no.lizztcms.footer no.lizztcms.subscribeNewsletter
    # UNIQUEID   = no.lizztcms.basicArticle
    # END LizztCMS_INFOBLOCK
    </%perl>

Any template can only have one infoblock and LizztCMS will stop processing the file
when it hits the first END LizztCMS_INFOBLOCK. You can have comments inside
an infoblock by using ## at the start of the line instead of just #.

The casing of the settings does not matter (the casing of the values DOES
matter, however). So you may write NAME, Name, name or anything in between.
Additionally you may have as much whitespace around the equals sign as you wish.

=head1 VALIDATION AND DEBUGGING

As LizztCMS templates are primarily mason templates, the first thing you
should do if you experience issues is to try to validate that the
Mason template is valid. This can for instance be done with the 
./tools/masontest.pl file included with LizztCMS. This program is an
approximate equivalent to 'perl -c' for mason templates.

Secondly, consult the list of required infoblock data above. If you have
forgotten an entry, it will not render the template.

Thirdly, check the LizztCMS logfile. If something goes wrong while rendering
the template, that's where the error information will be available.

=head2 UPDATING LIVE TEMPLATES MANUALLY

LizztCMS has a builtin template replacement function, but for quick updates
it is often much easier to upload it manually (ie. using rsync or scp) to
the server than to enter the LizztCMS web UI. The templates can be found in
the directory defined by LizztCMS:template_path in the LizztCMS config file.
Here the files are named with both their template_id (at the beginning
of the filename) and their uniqueid, so it should be simple to find the
one you want to replace. Once you have found it you can simply overwrite
it with your new version. If you did not change the infoblock then you
can just reload the page that is not working to see if your changes
are now working (checking the logfile for whining). If you did change
the infoblock then you will have to empty memcached. It's not recommended
that you do that on a live server so you ought to have a debugging server.
Emptying memcached can be done either from within the LizztCMS web UI on
the templates page, or by restarting memcached.

=head1 MORE INFORMATION

You can get more information on the various template formats by
reading the associated documentation:

=over

=item B<docs/templates/EmailTemplates.pod>

Contains documentation on the format for templates used to render
e-mails sent by LizztCMS.

=item B<docs/templates/WebTemplates.pod>

Contains documentation on the format for templates that are used
to render the live website that is running under LizztCMS.

=item B<docs/templates/MediaTemplates.pod>

Contains documentation on the special templates that are used to
render certain media content to the live website that is running
under LizztCMS. These are similar to the web templates, but as they
are used to render specific components, they have some special
limitations (and functions).

=back
